{"Does your child have a fever?":{"Yes":{"Does your child have sores or blisters on the face and on the body such as the stomach, chest or back?":{"Yes":"Your child may have CHICKENPOX, a contagious infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Give your child acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Call your child's doctor if fever gets worse or doesn't go away, if blisters look infected, or if new symptoms such as headache or nausea appear.","No":{"Does your child have a sore throat and painful blisters on the tongue or mouth, or a rash on the palms of hands or soles of feet?":{"Yes":"Your child may have HAND-FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE or HERPANGINA, viral infections caused by the COXSACKIE VIRUS. These illnesses must run their course. Avoid giving the child food and drinks that irritate blisters such as spicy, salty or acidic foods. Have your child drink plenty of cold fluids such as milk and ice water. Feed your child non-irritating foods such as ice cream. Have your child gargle with salt water to relieve discomfort and give your child an analgesic such as acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Call your child's doctor if symptoms get worse or don't get any better.","No":{"Does your child have a red and sore throat with white patches on the throat or tonsils, and possibly a rash somewhere else on the body?":{"Yes":"Your child may have STREP THROAT, a bacterial infection. See your child's doctor. He or she may want to do some tests and prescribe antibiotics. Allow your child to get plenty of rest and drink plenty of fluids. Give your child an analgesic such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Gargling with salt water may relieve some discomfort.","No":{"Does your child have painful sores, swelling or redness on the inside of the cheeks and on the gums?":{"Yes":"Your child may have GINGIVOSTOMATITIS, a condition caused by a viral infection of the HERPES or COXSACKIE VIRUSES. This condition usually gets better on its own. Allow your child to drink plenty of fluids and offer cold, soothing foods such as ice cream or frozen yogurt. Give your child acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Gargling with salt water may also relieve discomfort.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away. "}}}}}}}},"No":{"Does your child have sores or blisters on the face and on the body such as the stomach, chest or back?":{"Yes":"Your child may have CHICKENPOX, a contagious infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Give your child acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Call your child's doctor if fever gets worse or doesn't go away, if blisters look infected, or if new symptoms such as headache or nausea appear.","No":{"Does your child have a sore throat and painful blisters on the tongue or mouth, or a rash on the palms of hands or soles of feet?":{"Yes":"Your child may have HAND-FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE or HERPANGINA, viral infections caused by the COXSACKIE VIRUS. These illnesses must run their course. Avoid giving the child food and drinks that irritate blisters such as spicy, salty or acidic foods. Have your child drink plenty of cold fluids such as milk and ice water. Feed your child non-irritating foods such as ice cream. Have your child gargle with salt water to relieve discomfort and give your child an analgesic such as acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Call your child's doctor if symptoms get worse or don't get any better.","No":{"Does your child have a red and sore throat with white patches on the throat or tonsils, and possibly a rash somewhere else on the body?":{"Yes":"Your child may have STREP THROAT, a bacterial infection. See your child's doctor. He or she may want to do some tests and prescribe antibiotics. Allow your child to get plenty of rest and drink plenty of fluids. Give your child an analgesic such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Gargling with salt water may relieve some discomfort.","No":{"Does your child have painful sores, swelling or redness on the inside of the cheeks and on the gums?":{"Yes":"Your child may have GINGIVOSTOMATITIS, a condition caused by a viral infection of the HERPES or COXSACKIE VIRUSES. This condition usually gets better on its own. Allow your child to drink plenty of fluids and offer cold, soothing foods such as ice cream or frozen yogurt. Give your child acetaminophen to relieve pain and reduce fever. Gargling with salt water may also relieve discomfort.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away. "}}}}}}}}}}