{"Have you had a neck injury?":{"Yes":{"Are you having pain or numbness that extends from your neck down your shoulder, arms, or legs?":{"Yes":"This may be MUSCLE SPASM or a BURNER, but it also may be an injury to the SPINAL CORD. URGENT  See your doctor or go to the emergency room right away. If your doctor diagnoses your problem as MUSCLE SPASM or a BURNER, use over-the counter medicine, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to relieve pain, and apply heat to the sore area, as recommended by the doctor.","No":{"Has pain come on slowly over a few hours after the accident or injury?":{"Yes":"MUSCLE ACHES and SPASMS usually develop minutes to hours after an injury. These can often first be noticeable when you wake up the next morning after the accident or injury. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen and aspirin, to relieve pain and discomfort, and apply heat to the sore area. See your doctor if your pain gets worse or lasts for several days without getting better.","No":{"Do you have a fever, stiff neck, vomiting, and do normal amounts of light hurt your eyes?":{"Yes":"Your symptoms may be from a simple viral illness or from MENINGITIS, a more serious infection around the brain. EMERGENCY  See your doctor or go to the emergency room right away.","No":{"Do you have throbbing pain or numbness down your shoulder or into your arm?":{"Yes":"You may have a HERNIATED CERVICAL DISC, when part of the cushioning part of the bony spine presses backward against a nerve. It may also be from MUSCLE SPASM. See your doctor. Use over-the-counter medicine, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to relieve pain, and apply heat to the sore area. If your symptoms came on suddenly, see your doctor right away.","No":{"Do you have a stiff neck or are you having trouble moving your neck without pain?":{"Yes":"Your pain is probably from MUSCLE SPASM, but also may be from RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS, an inflammatory joint disease, or FIBROMYALGIA, a chronic condition affecting muscles and tendons. This also may be from a condition known as TORTICOLLIS or WRY NECK. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen or aspirin, and apply heat to the sore area. See your doctor if the pain or stiffness gets worse or doesn't get better. Acupuncture or chiropractic treatment may also be helpful.","No":{"Did you have a whiplash-type injury in the past, or do you have pain and or stiffness every day in your neck, hands, knees, hips or other joints?":{"Yes":"Your pain may be from CERVICAL OSTEOARTHRITIS (CERVICAL SPONDYLOSIS), a disorder that affects the bones and cartilage in the neck. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. See your doctor if the pain or stiffness gets worse or doesn't get better.","No":{"Do you feel a tender point or knot in your neck or upper shoulders that has associated pain into your neck or even associated with your temple and head?":{"Yes":"These are known as TRIGGER POINTS and occur often with people that type or write for work. Provide good forearm support when typing and writing. Arm rests can help, or have the keyboard pushed back from the edge of the desk or table to allow your forearms to be supported.  Acupuncture, stretching, or massage therapy can also potentially help.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away "}}}}}}}}}}}}}},"No":{"Are you having pain or numbness that extends from your neck down your shoulder, arms, or legs?":{"Yes":"This may be MUSCLE SPASM or a BURNER, but it also may be an injury to the SPINAL CORD. URGENT  See your doctor or go to the emergency room right away. If your doctor diagnoses your problem as MUSCLE SPASM or a BURNER, use over-the counter medicine, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to relieve pain, and apply heat to the sore area, as recommended by the doctor.","No":{"Has pain come on slowly over a few hours after the accident or injury?":{"Yes":"MUSCLE ACHES and SPASMS usually develop minutes to hours after an injury. These can often first be noticeable when you wake up the next morning after the accident or injury. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen and aspirin, to relieve pain and discomfort, and apply heat to the sore area. See your doctor if your pain gets worse or lasts for several days without getting better.","No":{"Do you have a fever, stiff neck, vomiting, and do normal amounts of light hurt your eyes?":{"Yes":"Your symptoms may be from a simple viral illness or from MENINGITIS, a more serious infection around the brain. EMERGENCY  See your doctor or go to the emergency room right away.","No":{"Do you have throbbing pain or numbness down your shoulder or into your arm?":{"Yes":"You may have a HERNIATED CERVICAL DISC, when part of the cushioning part of the bony spine presses backward against a nerve. It may also be from MUSCLE SPASM. See your doctor. Use over-the-counter medicine, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to relieve pain, and apply heat to the sore area. If your symptoms came on suddenly, see your doctor right away.","No":{"Do you have a stiff neck or are you having trouble moving your neck without pain?":{"Yes":"Your pain is probably from MUSCLE SPASM, but also may be from RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS, an inflammatory joint disease, or FIBROMYALGIA, a chronic condition affecting muscles and tendons. This also may be from a condition known as TORTICOLLIS or WRY NECK. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen or aspirin, and apply heat to the sore area. See your doctor if the pain or stiffness gets worse or doesn't get better. Acupuncture or chiropractic treatment may also be helpful.","No":{"Did you have a whiplash-type injury in the past, or do you have pain and or stiffness every day in your neck, hands, knees, hips or other joints?":{"Yes":"Your pain may be from CERVICAL OSTEOARTHRITIS (CERVICAL SPONDYLOSIS), a disorder that affects the bones and cartilage in the neck. Use anti-inflammatory medicines, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. See your doctor if the pain or stiffness gets worse or doesn't get better.","No":{"Do you feel a tender point or knot in your neck or upper shoulders that has associated pain into your neck or even associated with your temple and head?":{"Yes":"These are known as TRIGGER POINTS and occur often with people that type or write for work. Provide good forearm support when typing and writing. Arm rests can help, or have the keyboard pushed back from the edge of the desk or table to allow your forearms to be supported.  Acupuncture, stretching, or massage therapy can also potentially help.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away "}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}