{"Presented below is general information about a nosebleed and how to care for a nosebleed. A nosebleed can be scary to get - or see - but try to stay calm. Most nosebleeds look much worse than they really are. Almost all nosebleeds can be treated at home. If you get a nosebleed, sit down and lean slightly forward. Keeping your head above your heart will slow the bleeding. Lean forward so the blood will drain out of your nose instead of down the back of your throat. If you lean back, you may swallow the blood. This can irritate your stomach. Use your thumb and index finger to squeeze together the soft portion of your nose. This area is located between the end of your nose and the hard, bony ridge that forms the bridge of your nose. Keep holding your nose until the bleeding stops. Don't let go for at least 5 minutes. If it's still bleeding, hold it again for another 5 to 10 minutes. Once the bleeding stops, don't do anything that may make it start again, such as bending over or blowing your nose. See your doctor if: 1. The bleeding goes on for more than 20 minutes. 2. The bleeding was caused by an injury, such as a fall or something hitting your face OR 3. You get nosebleeds often.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information about a nosebleed and how to care for a nosebleed. A nosebleed can be scary to get - or see - but try to stay calm. Most nosebleeds look much worse than they really are. Almost all nosebleeds can be treated at home. If you get a nosebleed, sit down and lean slightly forward. Keeping your head above your heart will slow the bleeding. Lean forward so the blood will drain out of your nose instead of down the back of your throat. If you lean back, you may swallow the blood. This can irritate your stomach. Use your thumb and index finger to squeeze together the soft portion of your nose. This area is located between the end of your nose and the hard, bony ridge that forms the bridge of your nose. Keep holding your nose until the bleeding stops. Don't let go for at least 5 minutes. If it's still bleeding, hold it again for another 5 to 10 minutes. Once the bleeding stops, don't do anything that may make it start again, such as bending over or blowing your nose. See your doctor if: 1. The bleeding goes on for more than 20 minutes. 2. The bleeding was caused by an injury, such as a fall or something hitting your face OR 3. You get nosebleeds often.","No":"Presented below is general information about a nosebleed and how to care for a nosebleed. A nosebleed can be scary to get - or see - but try to stay calm. Most nosebleeds look much worse than they really are. Almost all nosebleeds can be treated at home. If you get a nosebleed, sit down and lean slightly forward. Keeping your head above your heart will slow the bleeding. Lean forward so the blood will drain out of your nose instead of down the back of your throat. If you lean back, you may swallow the blood. This can irritate your stomach. Use your thumb and index finger to squeeze together the soft portion of your nose. This area is located between the end of your nose and the hard, bony ridge that forms the bridge of your nose. Keep holding your nose until the bleeding stops. Don't let go for at least 5 minutes. If it's still bleeding, hold it again for another 5 to 10 minutes. Once the bleeding stops, don't do anything that may make it start again, such as bending over or blowing your nose. See your doctor if: 1. The bleeding goes on for more than 20 minutes. 2. The bleeding was caused by an injury, such as a fall or something hitting your face OR 3. You get nosebleeds often."}}