{"Press 'Yes' to learn about bites and stings. Press 'No' to learn about poisonous plants. ":{"Yes":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about  insect stings. Press 'No' to learn about tick-borne diseases.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for an insect sting. Most of the time, insect stings are harmless. If the person is allergic, an insect sting can lead to anaphylaxis, a life-threatening condition. What to Look For Signals of an insect sting include: 1. Presence of a stinger. 2. Pain. 3. Swelling. 4. Signals of an allergic reaction. What to Do If someone is stung by an insect: 1. Remove any visible stinger. Scrape it away from the skin with a clean fingernail or a plastic card, such as a credit card, or use tweezers. In the case of a bee sting, if you use tweezers, grasp the stinger, not the venom sac. 2. Wash the site with soap and water. 3. Cover the site and keep it clean. 4. Apply a cold pack to the area to reduce pain and swelling. 5. Call 9-1-1 if the person has any trouble breathing or for any other signals of anaphylaxis.","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about tick-borne diseases. Press 'No' to learn about West Nile Virus, a mosquito-borne illness.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for tick bite or tick disease. Humans can get very sick from the bite of an infected tick. Some of the diseases spread by ticks include Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Babesia infection, ehrlichiosis and Lyme disease.  To prevent tick-borne illnesses, always check for ticks immediately after outdoor activities. Most experts believe that the longer the tick stays attached to the skin, the greater the chances are of infection. Therefore, check for ticks at least once daily after having been outdoors. Quickly remove any ticks that you find before they become swollen with blood. Wash all clothing. Be sure to check pets because they can carry ticks into the house, where they can then attach themselves to people or other pets. Pets also can develop signals of tick-borne diseases. If you find a tick embedded in a person's skin, it must be removed. With a gloved hand, grasp the tick with fine-tipped and pointed tweezer that has a smooth inside. Get as close to the skin as possible. Pull slowly, steadily and firmly with no twisting. Do not try to burn off the tick. Do not apply petroleum jelly or nail polish to the tick. Put the tick in a container or jar with rubbing alcohol to kill it. Clean the bite area with soap and water and an antiseptic. Apply an antibiotic ointment if it is available and the person has no known allergies or sensitivities to the medication. Encourage the person to seek medical advice because of the risk of contracting a tick-borne disease. If you cannot remove the tick, have the person seek advanced medical care. ","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about West Nile Virus , a mosquito-borne illness. Press 'No' to learn about spider bites and scorpion stings. ":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for West Nile Virus. If you develop signals of severe West Nile Virus illness, such as unusually severe headaches or confusion, seek medical attention immediately. Pregnant women and nursing mothers are encouraged to talk to their doctors if they develop signals that could indicate West Nile Virus. There is no specific treatment for West Nile Virus infection or a vaccine to prevent it. In more severe cases, people usually need to go to the hospital, where they will receive intravenous fluids, assistance with breathing and nursing care. ","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about treating spider bites and scorpion stings. Press 'No' to learn about snake bites.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for a spider bite. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately if you suspect that someone has been bitten by a black widow spider or brown recluse spider, stung by a scorpion or if the person has any other life-threatening conditions. If the person has been bitten by a venomous spider or stung by a scorpion: 1. Wash the wound thoroughly. 2. Apply an antibiotic ointment, if the person has no known allergies or sensitivities to the medication, to prevent infection. 3. Bandage the wound. 4. Apply an ice or cold pack to the site to reduce pain and swelling. 5. Encourage the person to seek medical attention. Children and older adults may need antivenin to block the effects of the spider's venom. 6. If you transport the person to a medical facility, keep the bitten area elevated and as still as possible. ","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about snake bites. Press 'No' to learn about animal bites.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for a snake bite. If the bite is from a venomous snake such as a rattlesnake, copperhead, cottonmouth or coral snake call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately. To care for a venomous snake bite: 1. Wash the wound. 2. Apply an elastic (pressure immobilization) bandage to slow the spread of venom through the lymphatic system by following these steps: 1. Check for feeling, warmth and color of the limb and note changes in skin color and temperature. 2. Place the end of the bandage against the skin and use overlapping turns. The wrap should cover a long body section, such as an arm or a calf, beginning at the point farthest from the heart. For a joint, such as the knee or ankle, use figure-eight turns to support the joint. 3. Check above and below the injury for feeling, warmth and color, especially fingers and toes, after you have applied an elastic roller bandage. By checking before and after bandaging, you may be able to tell if any tingling or numbness is from the elastic bandage or the injury. 4. Check the snugness of the bandaging - a finger should easily, but not loosely, pass under the bandage. 5. Keep the injured area still and lower than the heart. The person should walk only if absolutely necessary. Do not apply ice. Do not cut the wound. Do not apply suction. Do not apply a tourniquet. Do not use electric shock, such as from a car battery. ","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about animal bites.":{"Yes":"Presented below is general information of caring for an animal bite. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if the wound is bleeding seriously or you suspect the animal might have rabies. If possible, try to remember the animal's appearance and where you last saw it. When you call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number, the call taker will direct the proper authorities, such as animal control, to the scene.To care for an animal bite: 1. Control bleeding first if the wound is bleeding seriously. 2. Do not clean serious wounds. The wound will be cleaned at a medical facility. 3. If bleeding is minor, wash the wound with soap and water then irrigate with clean running tap water. 4. Control any bleeding. 5. Apply an antibiotic ointment to a minor wound, if the person has no known allergies or sensitivities to the medication, and cover the wound with a dressing. 6. Watch for signals of infection.","No":"No other information."}}}}}}}}}}}},"No":"Presented below is general information of caring for an exposure to poisonous plants. You often can avoid or limit the irritating effects of touching or brushing against poisonous plants by following these steps: 1. Remove exposed clothing and wash the exposed area thoroughly with soap and water as soon as possible after contact. 2. Wash clothing exposed to plant oils since the oils can linger on fabric. Wash your hands thoroughly after handling exposed clothing. Wash your hands after touching exposed pets. 3. Put a paste of baking soda and water on the area several times a day if a rash or weeping sore begins to develop. Calamine lotion and antihistamines, such as Benadryl, may help to dry up the sores. 4. See a health care provider if the condition gets worse or involves areas of the face or throat that could affect breathing. He or she may decide to give anti-inflammatory drugs, such as corticosteroids or other medications, to relieve discomfort. "}}