{"Press 'Yes' to learn about the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) guidelines on emergency water disinfection. Press 'No' to learn about finding additional water sources and other tips.":{"Yes":"Presented below is information from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for emergency water disinfection. In an emergency situation where regular water service has been interrupted - like a hurricane, flood, or water pipe breakage - local authorities may recommend using only bottled water, boiled water, or disinfected water until regular water service is restored. The instructions below show you how to boil and disinfect water to kill most disease-causing microorganisms that may be present in the water. However, boiling or disinfection will not destroy other contaminants, such as heavy metals, salts, and most other chemicals. ONLY USE WATER THAT HAS BEEN PROPERLY DISINFECTED FOR DRINKING, COOKING, MAKING ANY PREPARED DRINK, WASHING DISHES AND FOR BRUSHING TEETH. 1. Use bottled water that has not been exposed to flood waters if it is available. 2. If you don't have bottled water, you should boil water to make it safe. Boiling water will kill most types of disease-causing organisms that may be present. If water is cloudy, let it settle and filter it through a clean cloth, paperboiling water towel, or coffee filter. Bring water to a rolling boil for at least one minute. At altitudes above 5,000 feet (1,000 meters), boil water for three minutes.Let water cool naturally and store it in clean containers with covers. 3. if you can't boil water. Only use regular, unscented chlorine bleach products that are suitable for disinfection and sanitization as indicated on the label. The label may say that the active ingredient contains 6 or 8.25% of sodium hypochlorite. Do not use scented, color safe, or bleaches with added cleaners.If water is cloudy, let it settle and filter it through a clean cloth, paper towel, or coffee filter. Locate a clean dropper from your medicine cabinet or emergency supply kit. Locate a fresh liquid chlorine bleach or liquid chlorine bleach that is stored at room temperatures for less than one year. Use 8 drops of 6% bleach, or 6 drops of 8.25 percent bleach, to each gallon of water. Double the amount of bleach if the water is cloudy, colored, or very cold. Stir and let stand for 30 minutes. The water should have a slight chlorine odor. If it doesn't, repeat the dosage and let stand for another 15 minutes before use. 4. If you have a well that has been flooded, the water should be tested and disinfected after flood waters recede. If you suspect that your well may be contaminated, contact your local or state health department for specific advice.","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about Center for Disease Control (C.D.C) tips on finding additional water souces around the home. Press 'No' for other tips including solar filtration.":{"Yes":"Presented below is information from the Center for Disease Control (C.D.C) on finding additional water sources around the home.  Other sources of clean and safe water can be found inside and outside the home. DO NOT DRINK water that has an unusual odor or color, or that you suspect might be contaminated with fuel or toxic chemicals. This water cannot be made safe, so you must find a different source of water for your needs. The following are possible sources of water. Here are some sources of water from inside the home. Water from your home's water heater tank (part of your drinking water system, not your home heating system). Melted ice cubes made with water that was not contaminated. Water from your home's toilet tank (not from the bowl), if it is clear and has not been chemically treated with toilet cleaners such as those that change the color of the water. Liquid from canned fruit and vegetables Water from swimming pools and spas can be used for personal hygiene, cleaning, and related uses, but not for drinking. Listen to reports from local officials for advice on water precautions in your home. It may be necessary to shut off the main water valve to your home to prevent contaminants from entering your piping system. Outside the home is harder to find safe water. Flood waters can contaminate well water and rivers, streams, and lakes with livestock waste, human sewage, chemicals, and other contaminants which can lead to illness when used for drinking, bathing, and other hygiene activities. Water from sources outside the home must be treated as described in Make Water Safe, because it could be contaminated with livestock waste or human sewage. If you suspect or know the water is contaminated with toxic chemicals or fuels, it cannot be made safe and you should not drink or bathe in this water. Possible sources of water that could be made safe by treatment include: Rainwater, Streams, rivers, and other moving bodies of water, Ponds and lakes or Natural springs. Note: DO NOT USE water that has been contaminated by fuel or toxic chemicals.","No":"Presented below is information from the Center for Disease Control (C.D.C) on other tips including solar filtration. Water filter can remove most impurities, but not viruses. Boiled or bottled water is the safest method. Treat all drinking, brushing, cleaning, water. In emergencies, sunlight in the UVA range can substantially improve the quality of water. In cloudy weather, water must be placed in the sun for 2 consecutive days. Solar disinfection is not effective on cloudy, opaque water. If the headlines in a newspaper cannot be read through the bottle of water, the water must be clarified before solar irradiation is used."}}}}