{"Starting instructions for CPR. Press 'Yes' if this is an adult. Press 'No' for a child or infant. ":{"Yes":{"Press 'No' now if the person is not breathing normally, to continue to CPR. Presented below are general instructions for an unresponsive adult. CHECK FOR RESPONSIVENESS: Tap the shoulder and shout, 'Are you okay?' CALL 9-1-1 If no response, CALL 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. If an unconscious person is face-down, roll him or her face-up keeping the head, neck and back in a straight line. If the person responds, obtain consent and CALL 9-1-1 or the local emergency number for any life-threatening conditions. CHECK the person from head to toe and ask questions to find out what happened. OPEN THE AIRWAY: Tilt head, lift chin. CHECK FOR BREATHING: CHECK for no more than 10 seconds. Is the person breathing normally ? Occasional gasps are not breathing. TIP: Use disposable gloves and other personal protective equipment.":{"Yes":{"Presented is general information on how to care for an unconscious adult who is breathing normally. If an unconscious person is breathing normally, keep the person lying face-up and maintain an open airway with the head-tilt/chin-lift technique. If the person vomits, fluids block the airway, or if you must leave the person to get help, place him or her into a modified high arm in endangered spine (HAINES) recovery position. Press 'Yes' to learn more about how to place someone in this position. Press 'No' to learn about special situations when performing CPR. If an unconscious adult has irregular, gasping or shallow breaths (agonal breathing) or is not breathing at all, begin CPR by pressing CPR button. If an unconscious child or infant is not breathing, after giving 2 rescue breaths, perform CPR. If the person is bleeding severely, control the bleeding by applying direct pressure, open the trauma section for more information on how to control bleeding.":{"Yes":"To place an adult or a child in a modified HAINES recovery position: 1. Kneel at the person's side. 2. Reach across the body and lift the arm farthest from you up next to the head with the person's palm facing up. 3. Take the person's arm closest to you and place it next to his or her side. 4. Grasp the leg farthest from you and bend it up. 5. Using your hand that is closest to the person's head, cup the base of the skull in the palm of your hand and carefully slide your forearm under the person's shoulder closest to you. Do not lift or push the head or neck. 6. Place your other hand under the arm and hip closest to you. 7. Using a smooth motion, roll the person away from you by lifting with your hand and forearm. Make sure the person's head remains in contact with the extended arm and be sure to support the head and neck with your hand. 8. Stop all movement when the person is on his or her side. 9. Bend the knee closest to you and place it on top of the other knee so that both knees are in a bent position. 10. Make sure the arm on top is in line with the upper body. If you must leave the person to get help, place the hand of the upper arm palm side down with the fingers under the head at the armpit of the extended lower arm. INFANT: An infant can be placed in a recovery position as would be done for an older child. You can also hold an infant in a recovery position by: 1. Carefully positioning the infant face-down along your forearm. 2. Supporting the infant's head and neck with your other hand while keeping the infant's mouth and nose clear. 3. Keeping the head and neck slightly lower than the chest. ","No":"When giving rescue breaths while performing CPR, you may encounter certain special situations. These include air in the stomach; vomiting; mouth-to-nose breathing; mouth-to-stoma breathing; persons with suspected head, neck or spinal injuries; and drowning victims. Air in the Stomach: When you are giving rescue breaths, be careful to avoid forcing air into the person's stomach instead of the lungs. This may happen if you breathe too long, breathe too hard or do not open the airway far enough. Vomiting. Even when you are giving rescue breaths properly, the person may vomit. If this happens, roll the person onto one side and wipe the mouth clean. If possible, use a protective barrier, such as disposable gloves, gauze or even a handkerchief when cleaning out the mouth. Then roll the person on his or her back again and continue giving care as necessary. Mouth-to-Nose Breathing. If you are unable to make a tight enough seal over the person's mouth, you can blow into the nose. Head, Neck and Spinal Injuries. Be especially careful with a person who may have a head, neck or spinal injury. These kinds of injuries can result from a fall from a height greater than the person's height, an automobile collision or a diving mishap. If you suspect such an injury, try not to move the person's head, neck and back. If a child is strapped into a car seat, do not remove him or her from it. To give rescue breaths to a person whom you suspect has a head, neck or spinal injury: Minimize movement of the head and neck when opening the airway. Carefully tilt the head and lift the chin just enough to open the airway. Drowning Victims. For an adult, give 2 rescue breaths as you would for a child or an infant once you determine there is no breathing. If alone, you should give 2 minutes of care before calling 9-1-1 (Care First) for an unconscious person who has been submerged. Do not enter the water unless you are specifi cally trained to perform in-water rescues. Get help from a trained responder, such as a lifeguard, to get the person out of the water as quickly and safely as possible. If the person is not breathing, you will have to give proper care. "}},"No":"Presented are CPR instructions for an adult. STEP 1, AFTER CHECKING THE SCENE AND THE INJURED OR ILL PERSON,  GIVE 30 CHEST COMPRESSIONS: Push hard, push fast in the center of the chest at least 2 inches deep and at least 100 compressions per minute. The person must be on a firm, flat surface. STEP 2, GIVE 2 RESCUE BREATHS :  Tilt the head back and lift the chin up. Pinch the nose shut then make a complete seal over the person's mouth. Blow in for about 1 second to make the chest clearly rise. Give rescue breaths, one after the other. If chest does not rise with the initial rescue breath, retilt the head before giving the second breath. If the second breath does not make the chest rise, the person may be choking. After each subsequent set of chest compressions and before attempting breaths, look for an object and, if seen, remove it. Continue CPR. STEP 3, DO NOT STOP : Continue cycles of CPR. Do not stop except in one of these situations: You find an obvious sign of life, such as breathing. An AED is ready to use. Another trained responder or EMS personnel take over. You are too exhausted to continue. The scene becomes unsafe. STEP 4, USE AN AED AS SOON AS ONE IS AVAILABLE. If no help is available , arrange for transport to the hospital as soon as possible. Call for help using Radio if no other method is available. "}},"No":{"Press 'No' now if the person is not breathing normally, to continue to CPR. Otherwise, presented below are general instructions for an unresponsive child or infant. AFTER CHECKING THE SCENE FOR SAFETY, CHECK THE CHILD OR INFANT. CHECK FOR RESPONSIVENESS: Tap the shoulder and shout, 'Are you okay?' For an infant, you may flick the bottom of the foot. CALL 9-1-1 If no response, CALL 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. If an unconscious child or infant is face-down, roll him or her face-up supporting the head, neck and back in a straight line. If ALONE, give about 2 minutes of CARE, then CALL 9-1-1. If the child or infant responds, CALL 9-1-1 or the local emergency number for any life-threatening conditions and obtain consent to give CARE. CHECK the child from head to toe and ask questions to find out what happened. OPEN THE AIRWAY: Tilt head back slightly, lift chin. CHECK FOR BREATHING for no more than 10 seconds. Occasional gasps are not breathing. Infants have periodic breathing, so changes in breathing pattern are normal for infants. GIVE 2 RESCUE BREATHS: If no breathing, give 2 rescue breaths as follows. Tilt the head back and lift the chin up. For a child , pinch the nose shut, then make a complete seal over child's mouth. For an infant , make complete seal over infant's mouth and nose. Blow in for about 1 second to make the chest clearly rise. Give rescue breaths, one after the other. TIP: If you witnessed the child or infant suddenly collapse, skip rescue breaths and start CPR. If the chest does not rise with the initial rescue breath, re-tilt the head before giving the second breath. QUICKLY SCAN FOR SEVERE BLEEDING. IF THE SECOND BREATH DOES NOT MAKE THE CHEST RISE. The child or infant may be choking, push the Choking button. Press 'Yes' if there is normal breathing.":{"Yes":{"Presented is general information on how to care for a child or infant who is unconscious but breathing normally. Press 'Yes' to learn more about how to place a person in a modified HAINES position. Press 'No' to learn about special situations when performing CPR. If an unconscious person is breathing normally, keep the person lying face-up and maintain an open airway with the head-tilt/chin-lift technique. If the person vomits, fluids block the airway, or if you must leave the person to get help, place him or her into a modified high arm in endangered spine (HAINES) recovery position. If an unconscious adult has irregular, gasping or shallow breaths (agonal breathing) or is not breathing at all, begin CPR by pressing CPR button. If an unconscious child or infant is not breathing, after giving 2 rescue breaths, perform CPR. If the person is bleeding severely, control the bleeding by applying direct pressure, open the trauma section for more information on how to control bleeding.":{"Yes":"Presented is general information on how to place an adult or a child in a modified HANES recovery position. To place an adult or a child in a modified HAINES recovery position: 1. Kneel at the person's side. 2. Reach across the body and lift the arm farthest from you up next to the head with the person's palm facing up. 3. Take the person's arm closest to you and place it next to his or her side. 4. Grasp the leg farthest from you and bend it up. 5. Using your hand that is closest to the person's head, cup the base of the skull in the palm of your hand and carefully slide your forearm under the person's shoulder closest to you. Do not lift or push the head or neck. 6. Place your other hand under the arm and hip closest to you. 7. Using a smooth motion, roll the person away from you by lifting with your hand and forearm. Make sure the person's head remains in contact with the extended arm and be sure to support the head and neck with your hand. 8. Stop all movement when the person is on his or her side. 9. Bend the knee closest to you and place it on top of the other knee so that both knees are in a bent position. 10. Make sure the arm on top is in line with the upper body. If you must leave the person to get help, place the hand of the upper arm palm side down with the fingers under the head at the armpit of the extended lower arm. INFANT: An infant can be placed in a recovery position as would be done for an older child. You can also hold an infant in a recovery position by: 1. Carefully positioning the infant face-down along your forearm. 2. Supporting the infant's head and neck with your other hand while keeping the infant's mouth and nose clear. 3. Keeping the head and neck slightly lower than the chest. ","No":"Presented is general information on special situations when performing CPR. When giving rescue breaths while performing CPR, you may encounter certain special situations. These include air in the stomach; vomiting; mouth-to-nose breathing; mouth-to-stoma breathing; persons with suspected head, neck or spinal injuries; and drowning victims. Air in the Stomach: When you are giving rescue breaths, be careful to avoid forcing air into the person's stomach instead of the lungs. This may happen if you breathe too long, breathe too hard or do not open the airway far enough. Vomiting. Even when you are giving rescue breaths properly, the person may vomit. If this happens, roll the person onto one side and wipe the mouth clean. If possible, use a protective barrier, such as disposable gloves, gauze or even a handkerchief when cleaning out the mouth. Then roll the person on his or her back again and continue giving care as necessary. Mouth-to-Nose Breathing. If you are unable to make a tight enough seal over the person's mouth, you can blow into the nose. Head, Neck and Spinal Injuries. Be especially careful with a person who may have a head, neck or spinal injury. These kinds of injuries can result from a fall from a height greater than the person's height, an automobile collision or a diving mishap. If you suspect such an injury, try not to move the person's head, neck and back. If a child is strapped into a car seat, do not remove him or her from it. To give rescue breaths to a person whom you suspect has a head, neck or spinal injury: Minimize movement of the head and neck when opening the airway. Carefully tilt the head and lift the chin just enough to open the airway. Drowning Victims. For an adult, give 2 rescue breaths as you would for a child or an infant once you determine there is no breathing. If alone, you should give 2 minutes of care before calling 9-1-1 (Care First) for an unconscious person who has been submerged. Do not enter the water unless you are specifi cally trained to perform in-water rescues. Get help from a trained responder, such as a lifeguard, to get the person out of the water as quickly and safely as possible. If the person is not breathing, you will have to give proper care. "}},"No":{"Press 'Yes' if this is an infant. Press 'No' if this is a child.":{"Yes":"Presented are CPR instructions for an infant. STEP 1, AFTER CHECKING THE SCENE AND THE INJURED OR ILL INFANT, GIVE 30 CHEST COMPRESSIONS : Push hard, push fast in the center of the chest about 1 and 1/2 inches deep and at least 100 compressions per minute. The infant must be on a firm, flat surface. STEP 2,  GIVE 2 RESCUE BREATHS : Tilt the head back and lift the chin up to a neutral position. Make a complete seal over the infant's mouth and nose. Blow in for about 1 second to make the chest clearly rise. Give rescue breaths, one after the other. If chest does not rise with the initial rescue breath, retilt the head before giving the second breath. If the second breath does not make the chest rise, the infant may be choking. After each subsequent set of chest compressions and before attempting breaths, look for an object and, if seen, remove it. Continue CPR. STEP 3, DO NOT STOP : Continue cycles of CPR. Do not stop except in one of these situations: You find an obvious sign of life, such as breathing. An AED is ready to use. Another trained responder or EMS personnel take over. You are too exhausted to continue. The scene becomes unsafe. STEP 4, USE AN AED AS SOON AS ONE IS AVAILABLE. If no help is available , arrange for transport to the hospital as soon as possible. Call for help using Radio if no other method is available. ","No":"Presented are CPR instructions for a child. STEP 1, AFTER CHECKING THE SCENE AND THE INJURED OR ILL CHILD, GIVE 30 CHEST COMPRESSIONS : Push hard, push fast in the center of the chest about 2 inches deep and at least 100 compressions per minute. The child must be on a firm, flat surface. STEP 2,  GIVE 2 RESCUE BREATHS : Tilt the head back and lift the chin up. Pinch the nose shut then make a complete seal over the child's mouth. Blow in for about 1 second to make the chest clearly rise. Give rescue breaths, one after the other. If chest does not rise with the initial rescue breath, retilt the head before giving the second breath. If the second breath does not make the chest rise, the child may be choking. After each subsequent set of chest compressions and before attempting breaths, look for an object and, if seen, remove it. Continue CPR. STEP 3, DO NOT STOP : Continue cycles of CPR. Do not stop except in one of these situations: You find an obvious sign of life, such as breathing. An AED is ready to use. Another trained responder or EMS personnel take over. You are too exhausted to continue. The scene becomes unsafe. STEP 4, USE AN AED AS SOON AS ONE IS AVAILABLE. If no help is available , arrange for transport to the hospital as soon as possible. Call for help using Radio if no other method is available.  "}}}}}}