{"Press 'Yes' to learn about how to control external bleeding. Press 'No' for fractures and other injuries.":{"Yes":{"Presented below is general information on how to control external bleeding. Press 'Yes' to learn about how to use a manufactured tourniquet. CONTROLLING EXTERNAL BLEEDING. AFTER CHECKING THE SCENE AND THE INJURED OR ILL PERSON: 1. COVER THE WOUND: Cover the wound with a sterile dressing. 2. APPLY DIRECT PRESSURE: Apply pressure until bleeding stops. 3. COVER DRESSING WITH BANDAGE: Check for circulation beyond the injury (check for feeling, warmth and color). 4. APPLY MORE PRESSURE AND CALL 9-1-1: If bleeding does not stop: Apply more dressings and bandages and continue to apply additional pressure. Take steps to minimize shock. CALL 9-1-1 if not already done. TIP: Wash hands with soap and water after giving care. ":{"Yes":"The following is general information on how to use a manufactured tourniquet. USING A MANUFACTURED TOURNIQUET. NOTE: Always follow standard precautions and follow manufacturer's instructions when applying a tourniquet. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. 1. POSITION THE TOURNIQUET: Place the tourniquet around the limb, approximately 2 inches (about two finger widths) above the wound but not over a joint. 2. PULL STRAP THROUGH BUCKLE: Route the tag end of the strap through the buckle, if necessary. Pull the strap tightly and secure it in place. 3. TWIST THE ROD: Tighten the tourniquet by twisting the rod until the flow of bleeding stops and secure the rod in place. Do not cover the tourniquet with clothing. 4. RECORD TIME: Note and record the time that you applied the tourniquet and give this information to EMS personnel. ","No":"No other data. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}},"No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about fractures and wounds. Press 'No' for head and other injuries. ":{"No":{"Press 'Yes' for Head or spine injuries. Press 'No' for Chest or Abdomen injuries.":{"No":{"Press 'Yes' for Chest injuries. Press 'No' for Abdomen injuries.":{"Yes":{"The following is general information on how to care for a chest injury. Press 'Yes' now to instead learn more about chest injuries and when to call 9-1-1. Caring for a chest injury depends on the type of injury. CARING FOR RIB FRACTURES: Although painful, a simple rib fracture is rarely life threatening. Give the person a blanket or pillow to hold against the fractured ribs. Use a sling and binder to hold the person's arm against the injured side of the chest. Monitor breathing. CARING FOR A SUCKING CHEST WOUND: To care for a sucking chest wound, cover the wound with a large occlusive dressing. A piece of plastic wrap, or a plastic bag folded several times and placed over the wound, makes an effective occlusive dressing. Tape the dressing in place except for one side or corner, which should remain loose. A taped-down dressing keeps air from entering the wound when the person inhales, and having an open corner allows air to escape when the person exhales. If these materials are not available to use as dressings, use a folded cloth. Take steps to minimize shock. Monitor the person's breathing. ":{"Yes":"The following is general information about chest injuries and when to call 9-1-1. Signals of a serious chest injury include: 1. Trouble breathing. 2. Severe pain at the site of the injury. 3. Flushed, pale, ashen or bluish skin. 4. Obvious deformity, such as that caused by a fracture. 5. Coughing up blood (may be bright red or dark, like coffee grounds). 6. Bruising at the site of a blunt injury, such as that caused by a seat belt. 7. A 'sucking' noise or distinct sound when the person breathes. WHEN TO CALL 9-1-1: Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number for any open or closed chest wound, especially if the person has a puncture wound to the chest. Also call if the person has trouble breathing or a sucking chest wound, or if you suspect rib fractures. Press 'Yes' now to learn about how to care for chest injuries."}},"No":{"The following is general information about caring for abdominal injuries. Press 'Yes' now to instead learn more about abdomen injuries and when to call 9-1-1. With a severe open injury, abdominal organs sometimes protrude through the wound. To care for an open wound to the abdomen, follow these steps: 1. Put on disposable gloves or use another barrier. 2. Carefully position the person on his or her back with the knees bent, if that position does not cause pain. 3. Do not apply direct pressure. 4. Do not push any protruding organs back into the open wound. 5. Remove clothing from around the wound. 6. Apply moist, sterile dressings loosely over the wound (clean, warm tap water can be used). 7. Cover dressings loosely with plastic wrap, if available . To care for a closed wound to the abdomen: 1. While keeping the injured area still, apply cold to the affected area to control pain and swelling. 2. Carefully position the person on his or her back with the knees bent, if that position does not cause pain. 3. Keep the person from getting chilled or overheated.":{"Yes":"The following is general information about abdominal injuries and when to call 9-1-1. Like a chest injury, an injury to the abdomen may be either open or closed. Injuries to the abdomen can be very painful. Even with a closed wound, the rupture of an organ can cause serious internal bleeding, resulting in shock. It is especially difficult to determine if a person has an internal abdominal injury if he or she is unconscious. Always suspect an abdominal injury in a person who has multiple injuries. WHAT TO LOOK FOR: Signals of serious abdominal injury include: 1. Severe pain. 2. Bruising. 3. External bleeding. 4. Nausea. 5. Vomiting (sometimes blood). 6. Weakness. 7. Thirst. 10. Pain, tenderness or a tight feeling in the abdomen. 11. Organs protruding from the abdomen. 12. Rigid abdominal muscles. 13. Other signals of shock. WHEN TO CALL 9-1-1: Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number for any serious abdominal injury. ","No":"No other information. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}}}},"Yes":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about how to care for a head or spinal injury. Press 'No' to learn about how concussions. The following is general information about head, neck or spinal injury. Always suspect a head, neck or spinal injury if a person is unconscious and/or if his or her safety helmet is broken. You also should suspect a head, neck or spinal injury if the injured person: 1. Was involved in a motor vehicle crash or subjected to another significant force. 2. Was injured as a result of a fall from greater than a standing height. 3. Is wearing a safety helmet that is broken. 4. Complains of neck or back pain. 5. Has tingling or weakness in the extremities. 6. Is not fully alert. 7. If you think a person has a head, neck or spinal injury, call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number.":{"Yes":"The following is general information about caring for head, neck and spinal injuries. While you are waiting for emergency medical services (EMS) personnel to arrive, the best care you can give is to minimize movement of the person's head, neck and spine. As long as the person is breathing normally, support the head and neck in the position found. Do this by placing your hands on both sides of the person's head in the position in which you found it. Support the person's head in that position until EMS personnel take over supporting the person's head. If the head is sharply turned to one side, do not move it. Support the head and neck in the position found. If a person with a suspected head, neck or spinal injury is wearing a helmet, do not remove it unless you are specifically trained to do so and it is necessary to assess or access the person's airway. Minimize movement using the same manual technique you would use if the person were not wearing headgear. The person may become confused, drowsy or unconscious. Breathing may stop. The person may be bleeding. If the person is unconscious, keep the airway open and check breathing. You should take steps to control severe bleeding and keep the person from getting chilled or overheated.","No":"The following is general information about concussions and when to call 9-1-1. Every suspected concussion should be treated seriously - call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. WHAT TO LOOK FOR: Signals of a concussion include: 1. Confusion, which may last from moments to several minutes. 2. Headache. 3. Repeated questioning about what happened. 4. Temporary memory loss, especially for periods immediately before and after the injury. 5. Brief loss of consciousness. 6. Nausea and vomiting. 7. Speech problems (patient is unable to answer questions or obey simple commands). 8. Blurred vision or light sensitivity. "}}}},"Yes":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about splinting. Press 'No' to learn about stiches. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if: 1. A person complains of severe pain or cannot move a body part without pain. 2. You think the force that caused the injury was great enough to cause serious damage. 3. An injured extremity is blue or extremely pale. 4. The person's abdomen is tender and distended. 5. The person is vomiting blood or coughing up blood. 6. The person shows signals of shock or becomes confused, drowsy or unconscious. Signals of internal bleeding include: 1. Tender, swollen, bruised or hard areas of the body, such as the abdomen. 2. Rapid, weak pulse. 3. Skin that feels cool or moist or looks pale or bluish. 4. Vomiting blood or coughing up blood. 5. Excessive thirst. 6. An injured extremity that is blue or extremely pale. 7. Altered mental state, such as the person becoming confused, faint, drowsy or unconscious.":{"No":"The following is general information about when a wound may require stitches. It can be difficult to judge when a wound requires stitches. One rule of thumb is that a health care provider will need to stitch a wound if the edges of skin do not fall together, the laceration involves the face or when any wound is over 1/2 inch long. Stitches speed the healing process, lessen the chances of infection and minimize scarring. They should be placed within the first few hours after the injury. The following major injuries often require stitches: 1. Bleeding from an artery or uncontrolled bleeding. 2. Wounds that show muscle or bone, involve joints, gape widely, or involve hands or feet. 3. Wounds from large or deeply embedded objects. 4. Wounds from human or animal bites. 5. Wounds that, if left un-stitched, could leave conspicuous scars, such as those on the face.","Yes":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about General care for fractures and limb injuries. The following is general information about splinting. Splinting is a method of immobilizing an injured part to minimize movement and prevent further injury and should be used only if you have to move or transport the person to seek medical attention and if it does not cause more pain. Splint an injury in the position in which you find it. For fractures, splint the joints above and below the site of the injury. For sprains or joint injuries, splint the bones above and below the site of the injury. If you are not sure if the injury is a fracture or a sprain, splint both the bones and joints above and below the point of injury. Splinting materials should be soft or padded for comfort. Check for circulation (feeling, warmth and color) before and after splinting to make sure that the splint is not too tight. There are many methods of splinting, including: 1. Anatomic splints. The person's body is the splint. For example, you can splint an arm to the chest or an injured leg to the uninjured leg. 2. Soft splints. Soft materials, such as a folded blanket, towel, pillow or folded triangular bandage, can be used for the splint. A sling is a specific kind of soft splint that uses a triangular bandage tied to support an injured arm, wrist or hand. 3. Rigid splints. Padded boards, folded magazines or newspapers, or padded metal strips that do not have any sharp edges can serve as splints. 4. The ground. An injured leg stretched out on the ground is supported by the ground.":{"Yes":"The following is general information about how to care for limb injuries. General care for injuries to muscles, bone and joints includes following the mnemonic R.I.C.E: 1. Rest - Do not move or straighten the injured area. 2. Immobilize - Stabilize the injured area in the position it was found. Splint the injured part only if the person must be moved or transported to receive medical care and it does not cause more pain (see Splinting an Injury). Minimizing movement can prevent further injury. 3. Cold - Fill a plastic bag with ice and water or wrap ice with a damp cloth and apply ice to the injured area for periods of about 20 minutes. Place a thin barrier between the ice and bare skin. If 20-minute icing cannot be tolerated, apply ice for periods of 10 minutes. If continued icing is needed, remove the pack for 20 minutes, and then replace it. Cold reduces internal bleeding, pain and swelling. Do not apply heat as there is no evidence that applying heat helps muscle, bone or joint injuries. 4. Elevate - Elevate the injured part only if it does not cause more pain. Elevating the injured part may help reduce swelling.","No":"No other data. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}}}}}}}};
