{"Press 'Yes' now to learn about how to administer an epinephrine injector or EpiPen in case someone may be having an Allergy Attack. Press 'No' to learn about how to otherwise care for someone having an Allergy Attack. Presented below is general information about an Allergy Attack and when to call 9-1-1. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if the person: 1. Has trouble breathing. 2. Complains of the throat tightening. 3. Explains that he or she is subject to severe allergic reactions. 4. Is unconscious. Severe allergic reactions can cause a life-threatening condition called anaphylaxis (also called anaphylactic shock). Anaphylaxis usually occurs suddenly. It happens within seconds or minutes after contact with the substance. The skin or area of the body that comes in contact with the substance usually swells and turns red. Other signals include the following: 1. Hives. 2. Itching. 3. Rash. 4. Weakness. 5. Nausea. 6. Stomach cramps. 7. Vomiting. 8. Dizziness. 9. Trouble breathing (including coughing and wheezing). Trouble breathing can progress to a blocked airway as the lips, tongue, throat and larynx (voice box) swell.":{"Yes":"Determine whether the person has already taken epinephrine or antihistamine. If so, administer a second dose only when EMS personnel are not present or delayed and if signals of anaphylaxis persist after a few minutes. Check the label to confirm that the prescription of the auto-injector is for this person. Check the expiration date of the auto-injector. If it has expired, DO NOT USE. If the medication is visible, confirm that the liquid is clear and not cloudy. If it is cloudy, DO NOT USE. NOTE: If possible, help the person self-administer the auto-injector. 1. INJECTION SITE: Locate the outside middle of one thigh to use as the injection site. NOTE: If injecting through clothing, press on the area with a hand to determine that there are no obstructions at the injection site, such as keys, coins, the side seam of trousers, etc. 2. REMOVE SAFETY CAP: Grasp the auto-injector firmly in your fist, and pull off the safety cap with your other hand. 3. POSITION AUTO-INJECTOR: Hold the tip (needle end) near the patient's outer thigh so that the auto-injector is at a 90-degree angle to the thigh. 4. ADMINISTER INJECTION: Quickly and firmly push the tip straight into the outer thigh. You will hear a click. 5. HOLD IN PLACE: Hold the auto-injector firmly in place for 10 seconds, then remove it from the thigh and massage the injection site with a gloved hand for several seconds. 6. RECHECK BREATHING: Recheck the person's breathing and observe his or her response to the medication. 7. HANDLE USED AUTO-INJECTOR CAREFULLY: Handle the used auto-injector carefully, placing it in a safe container. Give it to EMS personnel when they arrive.","No":"If you suspect anaphylaxis, and have called 9-1-1 or the local emergency number, follow these guidelines for giving care: 1. Monitor the person's breathing and for changes in his or her condition. 2. Give care for life-threatening emergencies. 3. Check a conscious person to determine: The substance (antigen) involved. The route of exposure to the antigen. The effects of the exposure. If the person is conscious and is able to talk, ask: What is your name? What happened? How do you feel? Do you feel any tingling in your hands, feet or lips? Do you feel pain anywhere? Do you have any allergies? Do you have prescribed medications to take in case of an allergic reaction? Do you know what triggered the reaction? In anaphylaxis, air passages can swell, restricting breathing. How much and how long were you exposed? Do you have any medical conditions or are you taking any medications? Quickly check the person from head to toe. Visually inspect the body: Observe for signals of anaphylaxis including respiratory distress. Look for a medical identification (ID) tag, bracelet or necklace. Check the person's head. Look for swelling of the face, neck or tongue. Notice if the person is drowsy, not alert, confused or exhibiting slurred speech. Check skin appearance. Look at person's face and lips. Ask yourself, is the skin: Cold or hot? Unusually wet or dry? Pale, ashen, bluish or flushed? Check the person's breathing. Ask if he or she is experiencing pain during breathing. Notice rate, depth of breaths, wheezes or gasping sounds. Care for respiratory distress. Help the person to rest in the most comfortable position for breathing, usually sitting. Calm and reassure the person. Assist the person with using a prescribed epinephrine auto-injector, if available and if permitted by state regulations. Document any changes in the person's condition over time."}}