{"Press 'Yes' now to learn about signs and symptoms of Stroke. Presented below is general information on how to care for someone who may be having a Stroke. WHEN TO CALL 9-1-1: Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately if you encounter someone who is having or has had a stroke, if you see signals of a stroke or if the person had a mini-stroke (even if the signals have gone away). Note the time of onset of signals and report it to the call taker or EMS personnel when they arrive. In the past, a stroke usually caused permanent brain damage. Today, new medications and medical procedures can limit or reduce the damage caused by stroke. Many of these new treatments must be given quickly to be the most helpful. It is important for the person to get the best care as quickly as possible. WHAT TO DO UNTIL HELP ARRIVES: Note the time that the signals started. If the person is unconscious, make sure that he or she has an open airway and care for life-threatening conditions. If fluid or vomit is in the person's mouth, position him or her on one side to allow fluids to drain out of the mouth. Remove any material from the mouth with a finger if the person is unconscious. Stay with the person and monitor breathing and for any changes in the person's condition. If the person is conscious, check for non-life-threatening conditions. A stroke can make the person fearful and anxious. Often, he or she does not understand what has happened. Offer comfort and reassurance. Have the person rest in a comfortable position. Do not give him or her anything to eat or drink. ":{"Yes":"As with other sudden illnesses, looking or feeling ill, or behaving in a strange way, are common, general signals of a stroke or mini-stroke. Other specific signals of stroke have a sudden onset, including: 1. Weakness or numbness of the face, arm or leg. This usually happens on only one side of the body. 2. Facial droop or drooling. 3. Trouble with speech. The person may have trouble talking, getting words out or being understood when speaking and may have trouble understanding. 4. Loss of vision or disturbed (blurred or dimmed) vision in one or both eyes. The pupils may be of unequal size. 5. Sudden severe headache. The person will not know what caused the headache and may describe it as \"the worst headache ever.\" 6. Dizziness, confusion, agitation, loss of consciousness or other severe altered mental status. 7. Loss of balance or coordination, trouble walking or ringing in the ears. 8. Incontinence. For a stroke, think FAST, which stands for the following: Face: Weakness, numbness or drooping on one side of the face. Ask the person to smile. Does one side of the face droop ? Arm: Weakness or numbness in one arm. Ask the person to raise both arms. Does one arm drift downward ? Speech: Slurred speech or difficulty speaking. Ask the person to repeat a simple sentence (e.g., Ask the person to say something like, \"The sky is blue.\"). Are the words slurred? Can the person repeat the sentence correctly?  Time: Try to determine when the signals began. If the person shows any signals of stroke, time is critical. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number right away.","No":"No other data. Please push Home to go back to the main screen."}}