{"Press 'Yes' to learn more about Heat cramps, Heat exhaustion and Heat stroke. Presented below is general information about an care for Heat Stroke. Signals of heat stroke include extremely high body temperature, red skin that can be either dry or moist; changes in consciousness; rapid, weak pulse; rapid, shallow breathing; confusion; vomiting; and seizures. WHEN TO CALL 9-1-1: Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately. Heat stroke is a life-threatening emergency. WHAT TO DO UNTIL HELP ARRIVES: 1. Preferred method: Rapidly cool the body by immersing the person up to the neck in cold water, if possible. OR Douse or spray the person with cold water. 2. Sponge the person with ice water-doused towels over the entire body, frequently rotating the cold, wet towels. 3. Cover with bags of ice. 4. If you are not able to measure and monitor the person's temperature, apply rapid cooling methods for 20 minutes or until the person's condition improves. 5. Give care according for other conditions found. ":{"Yes":"Heat cramps, heat exhaustion and heat stroke are conditions caused by overexposure to heat, loss of fluids and electrolytes. HEAT CRAMPS: Heat cramps are the least severe of the heat-related illnesses. They often are the first signals that the body is having trouble with the heat. WHAT TO LOOK FOR: Heat cramps are painful muscle spasms. They usually occur in the legs and abdomen. Think of them as a warning of a possible heat-related illness. HEAT EXHAUSTION: Heat exhaustion is a more severe condition than heat cramps. It often affects athletes, firefighters, construction workers and factory workers. It also affects those who wear heavy clothing in a hot, humid environment. WHAT TO LOOK FOR: Signals of heat exhaustion include cool, moist, pale, ashen or flushed skin; headache; nausea; dizziness; weakness; and exhaustion. HEAT STROKE: Heat stroke is the least common but most severe heat-related illness. It usually occurs when people ignore the signals of heat exhaustion. Heat stroke develops when the body systems are overwhelmed by heat and begin to stop functioning. Heat stroke is a serious medical emergency. WHAT TO LOOK FOR: Signals of heat stroke include extremely high body temperature, red skin that can be either dry or moist; changes in consciousness; rapid, weak pulse; rapid, shallow breathing; confusion; vomiting; and seizures.","No":"No other information. Please press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}}