{"Does your child have a fever?":{"Yes":{"Does your child have a moist, productive cough and cold or flu symptoms?":{"Yes":"Small children are prone to BRONCHIOLITIS, a cough that also has a symptom of shortness of breath. BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA may also cause shortness of breath. Take your child to your doctor right away. Do not give cough or cold medications to any child under five years.","No":{"Does your child have a sore throat and a dry, barking cough (sounds like a seal), or does he or she seem to have a very tight-feeling throat? Is he she leaning forward and putting one arm down to hold themselves up (called tripoding)?":{"Yes":"CROUP, EPIGLOTTITIS or an ABSCESS in the tonsils could cause these symptoms. All are serious infections and can block the airway or reduce its size. Take your child to your doctor right away. Consider calling an ambulance or taking the child to the closest emergency room if the shortness of breath is severe.","No":{"Does your child have a dry cough and cold symptoms along with shortness of breath?":{"Yes":"Occasionally, VIRAL BRONCHITIS will cause bronchial constriction just like asthma and cause shortness of breath. Take your child to your doctor right away.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away. Do not give cough or cold medications to any child under five years. "}}}}}},"No":{"Does your child have a moist, productive cough and cold or flu symptoms?":{"Yes":"Small children are prone to BRONCHIOLITIS, a cough that also has a symptom of shortness of breath. BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA may also cause shortness of breath. Take your child to your doctor right away. Do not give cough or cold medications to any child under five years.","No":{"Does your child have a sore throat and a dry, barking cough (sounds like a seal), or does he or she seem to have a very tight-feeling throat? Is he she leaning forward and putting one arm down to hold themselves up (called tripoding)?":{"Yes":"CROUP, EPIGLOTTITIS or an ABSCESS in the tonsils could cause these symptoms. All are serious infections and can block the airway or reduce its size. Take your child to your doctor right away. Consider calling an ambulance or taking the child to the closest emergency room if the shortness of breath is severe.","No":{"Does your child have a dry cough and cold symptoms along with shortness of breath?":{"Yes":"Occasionally, VIRAL BRONCHITIS will cause bronchial constriction just like asthma and cause shortness of breath. Take your child to your doctor right away.","No":"For more information, please talk to your doctor. If you think the problem is serious, call your doctor right away. Do not give cough or cold medications to any child under five years. "}}}}}}}}