{"Press 'Yes' to learn how to care for heat burns. Press 'No' to learn how to care for chemical burns. Presented below is general information about when to call 9-1-1 for a Burn. You should always call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if the burned person has: Trouble breathing, Burns covering more than one body part or a large surface area, Suspected burns to the airway. Burns to the mouth and nose may be a sign of this. Burns to the head, neck, hands, feet or genitals. A full-thickness burn and is younger than 5 years or older than 60 years. A burn caused by chemicals, explosions or electricity.":{"Yes":"Follow these basic steps when caring for a heat burn: 1. Check the scene for safety. Stop the burning by removing the person from the source of the burn. 2. Check for life-threatening conditions. As soon as possible, cool the burn with large amounts of cold running water, at least until pain is relieved. 3. Cover the burn loosely with a sterile dressing. 4. Take steps to minimize shock. Keep the person from getting chilled or overheated. 5. Comfort and reassure the person. 6. Do not apply ice or ice water to any burn. Ice and ice water can cause the body to lose heat rapidly and further damages body tissues. 7. Do not touch a burn with anything except a clean covering. 8. Do not remove pieces of clothing that stick to the burned area. 9. Do not try to clean a severe burn. 10. Do not break blisters. 11. Do not use any kind of ointment on a severe burn. When a person suffers a burn, he or she is less able to regulate body temperature. As a result, a person who has been burned tends to become chilled. To help maintain body temperature and prevent hypothermia, keep the person warm and away from drafts. Remember that cooling a burn over a large area of the body can bring on hypothermia. Be aware of this risk and look for signals of hypothermia. If possible, monitor the person's core body temperature when cooling a burn that covers a large area.","No":{"Press 'Yes' to learn about how to care for an electrical burn. Press 'No' to learn about how to prevent burns. When caring for chemical burns it is important to remember that the chemical will continue to burn as long as it is on the skin. You must remove the chemical from the skin as quickly as possible. To do so, follow these steps: 1. If the burn was caused by dry chemicals, brush off the chemicals using gloved hands or a towel and remove any contaminated clothing before flushing with tap water (under pressure). Be careful not to get the chemical on yourself or on a different area of the person's skin. 2. Flush the burn with large amounts of cool running water. Continue flushing the burn for at least 20 minutes or until EMS personnel take over. 3. If an eye is burned by a chemical, flush the affected eye with water until EMS personnel take over. Tilt the head so that the affected eye is lower than the unaffected eye as you flush. 4. If possible, have the person remove contaminated clothes to prevent further contamination while you continue to flush the area. Be aware that chemicals can be inhaled, potentially damaging the airway or lungs. ":{"Yes":"If you encounter a person with an electrical burn, you should: 1. Never go near the person until you are sure he or she is not still in contact with the power source. 2. Turn off the power at its source and care for any life-threatening conditions. 3. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. Any person who has suffered an electrical shock needs to be evaluated by a medical professional to determine the extent of injury.","No":"Heat burns can be prevented by following safety practices that prevent fire and by being careful around sources of heat. Chemical burns can be prevented by following safety practices around all chemicals and by following manufacturers guidelines when handling chemicals. Electrical burns can be prevented by following safety practices around electrical lines and equipment and by leaving outdoor areas when lightning could strike. Sunburn can be prevented by wearing appropriate clothing and using sunscreen. Sunscreen should have a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15."}}}}