{"The following is general information about labor and when to contact your physician or go to the hospital. Press 'Yes' to skip this and  learn about how to deliver a baby. Press 'No' for general information on caring for yourself and baby after delivery. If a woman is giving birth, call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately. Give the EMS call taker the following important information: The woman's name, age and expected due date. How long she has been having labor pains. Whether this is her first child.  Usually, in true labor, contractions get longer, stronger and closer together over time. They do not go away. If your contractions do not get stronger or closer together, or if the contractions stop when you rest or change position, you probably are not in labor. But if your contractions do not go away, call your caregiver. Also, you should call your doctor, midwife, birth center or hospital labor floor immediately, if: 1. You or your baby has special health needs, and your physician has told you to call as soon as contractions begin. 2. Your amniotic sac (bag of waters) breaks, even if you are not having contractions. This may be a sudden, large gush of fluid or a steady, small trickle of fluid that doesn't stop. 3. You have any vaginal bleeding. 4. You feel that your baby is not moving as much as she or he did before. 5. You have a fever or chills. 6. You have burning or pain when you urinate. 7. You have any signs of high blood pressure; headache; dizziness; spots before your eyes; or blurred vision. 8. You are sick to your stomach and unable to keep down 2 or more meals in a row. 9. You have severe or continuous abdominal pain. 10. You have contractions that happen every 10 minutes or more often, earlier than 3 weeks before your due date. 11. There is an increase in pelvic pressure or a vaginal discharge which suddenly increases in amount or becomes mucousy, watery or lightly bloody. 12. You have unexpected symptoms of any kind (e.g., numbness, tingling, slurred speech). View information about deliverying a baby ?":{"Yes":{"The following are general steps to take to deliver a baby. Press 'Yes' for a more detailed discussion. By following a few simple steps, you can effectively assist in the birth process while you wait for EMS personnel to arrive. If a woman is giving birth: 1. Talk with the woman to help her remain calm. 2. Place layers of clean sheets, towels or blankets under her and over her abdomen. 3. Control the scene so that the woman will have privacy. 4. Position the woman on her back with her knees bent, feet flat and legs spread wide apart. 5. Avoid contact with body fluids; wear disposable gloves and protective eye wear if possible. 6. Remember, the woman delivers the baby, so be patient and let it happen naturally. 7. The baby will be slippery; use a clean towel to receive and hold the baby; avoid dropping the baby. 8. Keep the baby warm; have a clean, warm towel or blanket handy to wrap the newborn. CAUTIONS: Do not let the woman get up or leave to find a bathroom (most women want to use the restroom). Do not hold the woman's knees together; this will not slow the birth process and may complicate the birth or harm the baby. Do not place your fingers in the vagina for any reason. Do not pull on the baby. Press 'Yes' for more information. ":{"Yes":{"The following is a more detailed section on deliverying a baby. Press 'No' to skip this and learn about major indications for C-section. Labor is divided into three stages: First Stage - the cervix dilates so that the baby can pass through. Your caregiver measures the opening of the cervix in centimeters. When the cervix is open to its fullest - 9 to 10 centimeters (about 4 inches) - it is large enough for the baby to pass through. Second Stage - by pushing (bearing down), you move the baby out through the birth canal, and the baby is born. Third Stage - your uterus continues to contract, and the placenta (afterbirth) is pushed out. Today, caregivers often encourage the mother to follow her own urges to bear down during birth. This can result in an easier birth for the mother and her baby. Discuss this with your caregiver since he or she may want to check to ensure that the cervix is dilated enough for pushing to be safe and effective. Pushing before the cervix is completely dilated can make it swell and tear and prolong labor. On the other hand, if you don't feel a strong urge to push when your cervix is fully dilated, try a change of position. Lying on your side may help. Your pushes will be more effective if you really feel that urge to bear down. Just as the head is coming out, your caregiver may tell you not to push for a minute. This allows time for the opening of your vagina to stretch, and to prevent tearing. If you have a strong urge to push, breathe deeply or pant. After the baby's head is out, your caregiver will check to see if the umbilical cord (the connection from the baby's navel to the placenta) is around the baby's neck. Generally, the fact that the cord is around the baby's neck is not a problem. However, if the cord is too tight, your caregiver will clamp and cut it immediately. While your caregiver is checking the cord, he or she will ask you not to bear down or push. Breathe deeply or pant through the contractions to keep from bearing down. With your next contraction, the baby's head may turn to the side. Now it is time to bear down because the baby's shoulders and body are ready to come out. Avoid holding your breath or bearing down too long or too hard. Let yourself make pushing noises. Push as your body tells you and try to ease the baby out. As you bear down, the shoulders and body will appear. Is it a boy or a girl? CONGRATULATIONS, MOM! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BABY!":{"No":{"The following are major indications for C-section. Press 'Yes' to skip this and learn about monitoring and fetal distress. 1. You have had a previous cesarean delivery.  2. Your baby is very big or your pelvis is very small - or both. 3. Your labor does not progress effectively.  4. The baby develops 'fetal distress.' This can happen if the baby is not getting enough oxygen. One possible sign of fetal distress is a change in the baby's heart rate. Another possible sign is a 'meconium stain.' This happens when the baby has a bowel movement while in the uterus, causing the color of the fluid around the baby to change from clear to green, yellow or brown. If fetal distress is detected, work with your caregiver to increase the supply of oxygen to the baby. Your caregiver may also want to check the baby more closely by using continuous internal electronic monitoring or by examining a small drop blood from the baby's scalp (fetal blood sampling). These procedures may eliminate the need for a cesarean delivery. 5. The baby is coming out bottom-first. The usual position of a baby in the uterus is head-down. But some babies are in the bottom- or feet-first position, called a 'breech presentation.' Many breech babies turn head down by themselves. If your baby is in a breech position, talk with your caregiver about exercises you can do to help turn the baby, and about the best way to deliver. 6. There are problems with the placenta. Sometimes, the placenta separates from the uterus before the baby is born and can cause vaginal bleeding in late pregnancy (abruptio placenta), or the placenta is attached to the uterus over part or all of the cervix (placenta previa). Either of these conditions can cause severe bleeding for the mother and loss of oxygen for the baby, and result in a decision to deliver by cesarean. 7. The mother has severe Pregnancy Induced Hypertension (PIH). Pregnancy Induced Hypertension (PIH) is a serious illness that sometimes occurs during pregnancy, generally in the third trimester. Signs of PIH are sudden weight gain, severe swelling of feet and hands, severe headaches, dizziness, blurred vision, protein in the urine, and an increase in blood pressure. PIH is dangerous for both mother and baby. The mother could have convulsions, a stroke or kidney failure if the baby is not delivered quickly. PIH, by limiting the flow of blood to the uterus, reduces the blood flow to the baby. 8. The mother has diabetes. 9. The mother has active genital herpes or other infections. Herpes and other infections at the time of delivery can make the baby very ill or even cause death. 10. The umbilical cord slips into the vagina before the baby (prolapsed cord). This is dangerous because the pressure of the baby's head against the cord will reduce the flow of blood and oxygen to the baby. ":{"Yes":"The following is general information about fetal monitoring and fetal distress. A baby's heart rate is about two times faster than an adults - usually ranging from 120 to 160 beats per minute. During labor and delivery, your caregivers will frequently check the baby's heartbeat. They will check the heartbeat during and between contractions. Changes in the baby's heart rate can be a sign that the baby is having difficulty - called fetal distress - and needs special care. Another measure of the baby's well-being is the color of the amniotic fluid in or from the amniotic sac. This is the fluid that surrounds the baby in your uterus. The fluid should be clear to milky white. If the color is yellow, green or brown, it means that your baby has passed stool into the amniotic fluid. Caregivers call this 'meconium staining.' This staining is a sign that the baby may need special care. It is normal for a breech (bottom first) baby to have a bowel movement during labor. This is because the buttocks and abdomen are being squeezed through the vagina. It does not mean that the baby needs special care. Most of the time, fetal heart rate changes or meconium staining are followed by the birth of a normal baby. But if changes in the heart rate or meconium staining occur, your caregiver will provide special care. He or she will use special tests, such as electronic fetal heart rate monitoring, fetal blood sampling or others. Throughout labor and delivery, your baby will be carefully checked. The nurse or licensed midwife will monitor the baby's heartbeat with a fetal monitor or ultrasonic doppler, used to magnify the sound of the baby's heartbeat. ","No":"No other information. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}},"Yes":"No other information. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}},"No":"No other information. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to start over."}},"No":"The following is general information on caring for yourself and baby after delivery. Follow these suggestions to feel your best after your baby is born: Get as much rest as you can. Try to take naps when your baby is sleeping. Ask someone to help you with housework and groceries. Eat healthy foods and drink lots of liquids. Don't drink alcohol or use drugs. They can make you feel more tired and depressed. Start exercising again. A brisk walk in the fresh air is great. Take your baby along for the walk! To help prevent Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), it is best to put your baby on his or her back to sleep. SIDS is the sudden and unexplained death of an infant, under one year of age, who seems perfectly healthy. Check with your doctor to make sure your baby can sleep on his or her back. Most babies can, but a few babies have health conditions that require them to sleep on their stomachs. Make sure your baby sleeps on a firm mattress or other firm surface. Don't use fluffy blankets or comforters under the baby. When your baby is very young, don't put stuffed toys or pillows in the crib with him or her. Don't allow anyone to smoke around your baby. "}}