{"Presented below is information on identifying and helping someone who may be having an Asthma Attack. Press 'Yes' now to learn about how to assist with an asthma rescue inhaler. You often can tell when a person is having an asthma attack by the hoarse whistling sound made while exhaling. This sound, known as wheezing, occurs because air becomes trapped in the lungs. Coughing after exercise, crying or laughing are other signals that an asthma attack could begin. Signals of an asthma attack include: 1. Trouble breathing or shortness of breath. 2. Rapid, shallow breathing. 3. Sweating. 4. Tightness in the chest. 5. Inability to talk without stopping for a breath. 6. Feelings of fear or confusion. WHEN TO CALL 9-1-1: Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if the person's breathing trouble does not improve in a few minutes after using the quick-relief medication. WHAT TO DO UNTIL HELP ARRIVES: Remain calm. This will help the person to remain calm and ease breathing troubles. Help the person to sit comfortably. Loosen any tight clothing around the neck and abdomen. Assist the person with his or her prescribed quick-relief medication if requested and if permitted by state or local regulations.":{"Yes":"Presented below is information on how to assist with an asthma inhaler. ASSISTING WITH AN ASTHMA INHALER. TIP: Always obtain consent and wash your hands immediately after giving care. Read and follow all instructions printed on the inhaler prior to administering the medication to the person. IF THE PERSON HAS MEDICATION FOR ASTHMA, HELP HIM OR HER TAKE IT IF ASKED. 1. HELP PERSON SIT UP: Help the person sit up and rest in a position comfortable for breathing. 2. CHECK PRESCRIPTION: Ensure that the prescription is in the person's name and is prescribed for 'quick relief' or 'acute' attacks. Ensure that the expiration date has not passed. 3. SHAKE INHALER. 4. REMOVE MOUTHPIECE COVER: If an extension tube (spacer) is available, attach and use it. 5. INSTRUCT PERSON TO BREATHE OUT: Tell the person to breathe out as much as possible through the mouth. TIP: The person may use different techniques, such as holding the inhaler two-finger lengths away from the mouth. 6. ADMINISTER MEDICATION: Have the person place his or her lips tightly around the mouthpiece and take a long, slow breath. As the person breathes in slowly, administer the medication by quickly pressing down on the inhaler canister, or the person may self-administer the medication. The person should continue a full, deep breath. Tell the person to try to hold his or her breath for a count of 10. When using an extension tube (spacer) have the person take 5 to 6 deep breaths through the tube without holding his or her breath. 7. RECORD TIME OF ADMINISTRATION: Note the time of administration and any change in the person's condition. The medication may be repeated once after 1 to 2 minutes. 8. HAVE PERSON RINSE MOUTH: Have the person rinse his or her mouth out with water to reduce side effects. Stay with the person and monitor his or her condition and give CARE for any other conditions. 9. CARE FOR SHOCK: Care for shock. Keep the person from getting chilled or overheated. CALL 9-1-1 or the local emergency number if trouble breathing does not improve quickly.","No":"No other information. Press 'Back' or 'Home' to go back."}}